Python Network/Socket Programming Notes

1. Basic Networking - IP Addresses

IP Address - An Internet Protocol address (IP address) is a numerical label assigned to each device connected to a computer network that uses the Internet Protocol for communication

Two types of IP Address:
  
  1. Public IP - Provided by the Internet Service Provider (ISP) - Found by simply searching "What's my IP?" on your browser
  
  2. Privare IP - Provided by the router and WIFI devices - Found by simply typing ipconfig on cmd promt (Windows) or ifconfig on terminal (Linux & Mac)
  
Static IP Address - Never Changes - Example: Servers and Websites

Dynamic IP Address - Always kept changing on every restarts - Example : Computers and Mobile Devices

2. Basic Networking - Ports

  1. HTTP    -  Web Pages           -  80   -  httplib, urllib, xmlrpclib
  2. NNTP    -  Usenet News         -  119  -  nntplib
  3. FTP     -  File Transfers      -  21   -  ftplib, urllib
  4. SMTP    -  Sending emails      -  25   -  smtplib
  5. POP3    -  Fetching emails     -  110  -  poplib
  6. IMAP4   -  Fetching emails     -  143  -  imaplib
  7. Telnet  -  Command Lines       -  23   -  telnetlib
  8. Gopher  -  Document Transfers  -  70   -  gopherlib, urllib
  
For full list of Ports refer : https://www.webopedia.com/quick_ref/portnumbers.asp

3. Basic Networking - Sockets

Sockets - Two processes that run on the same machine, or different machines, communicate through sockets. Sockets are seen as the end of the two-way communication between two processes; they allow processes to communicate with each other ​using a file descriptor and are commonly used in client-server applications that allow for communication between multiple applications.

Socket Commands :
  
  1. socket.socket()    - creates a socket for communication
  2. s.bind(host, port) - binds the IP address and port for communication process
  2. s.send()           - sends the message throught the socket conncetion
  4. s.listen()         - receiver uses this to listen on the machine to receive the connection
  5. s.recv()           - receives the message to the receiver machine
  6. s.close()          - finally this command is used to close the socket connection
  
4. Basic Networking - Direct & Reverse Connection

Direct Connection - create a tcp socket and bind it with our IP Address and request the client to accept the Socket Connection to access remotely

Reverse Connection -  The Connection initiated by the victim's computer to the attacker computer











































